profile/README.md, before:

# Welcome to the Spyderisk Open Project on GitHub

The Spyderisk Open Project started in 2023, building on
[15 years of history in risk assessment](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller/blob/dev/HISTORY.md)
of complex systems.

All of our work is published and maintained under open licenses - software
source code, ontologies, domain model database, online training, documentation,
and academic papers. The Spyderisk Open Project was launched by the University of
Southampton, England, but we welcome all collaborators and contributors.

## Who is Spyderisk for?

Spyderisk at present is for people who are familiar with the field of risk
assessment, such as risk researchers, academics, ethicists or policymakers.

Focus areas of the Spyderisk Open Project are:

* the ethics of risk assessment
* ontologies of harm, risk and misbehaviour
* mathematical modelling of risk assessment
* software tools to calculate risk in models of complex systems

While the Spyderisk software is currently for the more technically-inclined,
we make clear in our
[guide to Spyderisk contributors](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller/blob/dev/CONTRIBUTING.md)
that if you have an interest in risk assessment, there probably a way to become involved.
Just explaining what risk assessment is about and why it is important is a skill in itself,
and if you have that skill we would love to hear from you.

## What is Spyderisk

By *complex systems* we means "systems of systems that humans are unable to
fully understand, debug or predict, typically socio-technical-physical
systems." The social aspects include legal and policy requirements; technical
components include information technology networks and machine
learning/artificial intelligence; while physical systems include handheld
devices, train station information zones, and human guards at country frontier
checkpoints.  These complex systems decide (among many examples) our everyday
privacy, the safety of our medical records, and that airports function smoothly
and safely.

The Spyderisk team has written many
[papers and reports related to risk assessment](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller/blob/dev/docs/papers/README.md),
including some of the first on ontological approaches to concepts such as biomedical burden
or security aspects of systems composed of IoT systems. Spyderisk starts from an
[ontological approach](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller/blob/dev/docs/ontology.md)
although the Spyderisk software does not require any ontological knowledge.

As of Mid-2024, the Spyderisk software is in early release, fully available but only working
in quite specific circumstances. To get a feel for what the software can do, 
We have [online training courses](https://training.spyderisk.org/courses/) introducing the field of 
automated risk assessment, and how to model systems with the Spyderisk software.

If you are a researcher in the area of risk modelling including ontologies of
risk, or if you have a specific problem domain you need to examine (particularly
in cybersecurity or privacy) then Spyderisk could be for you. 

# The Spyderisk repositories

* [Spyderisk System Modeller](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller) - the software, for people comfortable dealing with computer source code
* [Spyderisk System Modeller Deployment](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller-deployment/) - the tools which allow a user familiar with installing software, either on their own laptop or on cloud servers they own.
* [Spyderisk Adaptor](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller-adaptor/) - For users of the [Python programming language](https://python.org) commonly used in science and academia, who want to do automated risk assessment from their owncode. A running instance of the Spyderisk application has APIs that the Spyderisk Adaptor can call.
* [Spyderisk Domain Network](https://github.com/Spyderisk/domain-network) - the most complete and advanced Spyderisk knowledgebase, describing a complex computing/IoT/cloud network in very general terms such as "server computer" or "database". Users of the Spyderisk software can then load in this model and use it as a palette for drawing their own real-world network in order to explore their particular risk profiles.

There are many other repositories here, varying from project administration
tools to very specific technical code that operates on Domain Models.

Commit message:

Add the Spyderisk goals/mission

profile/README.md, after:

# Welcome to the Spyderisk Open Project on GitHub

The Spyderisk Open Project started in 2023, building on
[15 years of history in risk assessment](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller/blob/dev/HISTORY.md)
of complex systems.

The overall Spyderisk mission is to:

> increase global trust in Information and Communication Technology (ICT) by establishing an international Open Community supporting the research, development, use and support of open, reliable, accessible and inclusive ICT risk assessment methods and tools.

All of our work is published and maintained under open licenses - software
source code, ontologies, domain model database, online training, documentation,
and academic papers. The Spyderisk Open Project was launched by the University of
Southampton, England, but we welcome all collaborators and contributors.

## Who is Spyderisk for?

Spyderisk at present is for people who are familiar with the field of risk
assessment, such as risk researchers, academics, ethicists or policymakers.

Focus areas of the Spyderisk Open Project are:

* the ethics of risk assessment
* ontologies of harm, risk and misbehaviour
* mathematical modelling of risk assessment
* software tools to calculate risk in models of complex systems

While the Spyderisk software is currently for the more technically-inclined,
we make clear in our
[guide to Spyderisk contributors](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller/blob/dev/CONTRIBUTING.md)
that if you have an interest in risk assessment, there probably a way to become involved.
Just explaining what risk assessment is about and why it is important is a skill in itself,
and if you have that skill we would love to hear from you.

## What is Spyderisk

By *complex systems* we means "systems of systems that humans are unable to
fully understand, debug or predict, typically socio-technical-physical
systems." The social aspects include legal and policy requirements; technical
components include information technology networks and machine
learning/artificial intelligence; while physical systems include handheld
devices, train station information zones, and human guards at country frontier
checkpoints.  These complex systems decide (among many examples) our everyday
privacy, the safety of our medical records, and that airports function smoothly
and safely.

The Spyderisk team has written many
[papers and reports related to risk assessment](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller/blob/dev/docs/papers/README.md),
including some of the first on ontological approaches to concepts such as biomedical burden
or security aspects of systems composed of IoT systems. Spyderisk starts from an
[ontological approach](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller/blob/dev/docs/ontology.md)
although the Spyderisk software does not require any ontological knowledge.

As of Mid-2024, the Spyderisk software is in early release, fully available but only working
in quite specific circumstances. To get a feel for what the software can do, 
We have [online training courses](https://training.spyderisk.org/courses/) introducing the field of 
automated risk assessment, and how to model systems with the Spyderisk software.

If you are a researcher in the area of risk modelling including ontologies of
risk, or if you have a specific problem domain you need to examine (particularly
in cybersecurity or privacy) then Spyderisk could be for you. 

# The Spyderisk repositories

* [Spyderisk System Modeller](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller) - the software, for people comfortable dealing with computer source code
* [Spyderisk System Modeller Deployment](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller-deployment/) - the tools which allow a user familiar with installing software, either on their own laptop or on cloud servers they own.
* [Spyderisk Adaptor](https://github.com/Spyderisk/system-modeller-adaptor/) - For users of the [Python programming language](https://python.org) commonly used in science and academia, who want to do automated risk assessment from their owncode. A running instance of the Spyderisk application has APIs that the Spyderisk Adaptor can call.
* [Spyderisk Domain Network](https://github.com/Spyderisk/domain-network) - the most complete and advanced Spyderisk knowledgebase, describing a complex computing/IoT/cloud network in very general terms such as "server computer" or "database". Users of the Spyderisk software can then load in this model and use it as a palette for drawing their own real-world network in order to explore their particular risk profiles.

There are many other repositories here, varying from project administration
tools to very specific technical code that operates on Domain Models.
